Work on the staging area (#318)
coderefinery/git-intro: content/staging-area.md

## Staging area commands

> The staging area creates a layer between the working directory and the next

Reviewer: can this be rephrased to somehow sound less jargony??

Author: following up below

> The staging area creates a layer between the working directory and the next
> commit. This adds some complexity but also adds more flexibility to selectively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The staging area is a middle ground between what you have done to your files
(the **working directory**) and what you have last committed (the **HEAD commit**).
Just like the name implies, it lets you prepare (**stage**) what the next commit will be - 
and most importantly give you tools to easily know what is going on.
This adds some complexity but also adds more flexibility to selectively
```
This is my less-jargony idea.  Can you make it shorter?

prepare commits since **you can modify and stage several times before committing**.

**git add** stages/prepares for the next commit:
```text
                git add
 [project*]  <------------  project*
                               ^
                               | modify with editor
                               |

>   HEAD            .         project

Reviewer: below or above HEAD could be the branch name (whatever it is we are using now)

    |             .
    |             .
    |             .
  HEAD~1          .
    |             .
    |             .
    |             .
                  .
  .git            .     working directory
(history)         .      (files we see)

> ```

Reviewer: I actually quite like this representation!  Somehow it gives me a fresh perspective (if that's good or not is a good question).

Some possibilities to improve it:

Add the column labels on the top.  Separate them from the body with a horizotnal line?
Swap the columns maybe?  So that the logical flow goes left to right.
Hm, is it better for it to be top-to-bottom or bottom-to-top?
Then make a demo that represents `commit -a` - maybe not say that's what it is, but showing project and project*, then the new commit HEAD created from project*.  Basically, a simple example of the syntax before getting into the staging area.

The above ideas are perhaps too much to do for an optional episode (so I'm not saying it should be done), but it is what comes to mind.

```

```{figure} img/staging-basics.svg
:alt: Staging basics

> :width: 100%

Reviewer: I'm biased since I made that picture, but once I did stuff finally started clicking for me.
> There are three "locations" (working, staging, HEAD), and each pair has a command that shows the differences and updates one to look like the other.

Could this be moved to the bottom, or perhaps moved to reference.md ?  Maybe that text + the picture could be used as a "wrap up" at the bottom?

I'd agree that this should not be the first thing shown

Reviewer: ... though it could be updated for "git restore", but that could be written below saying "with new enough git this works"?

Author: I will put it back and update.

    |             .
    |             .
    |             .
  HEAD~1          .
    |             .
    |             .
    |             .
  HEAD~2          .
    |             .
    |             .
    |             .
                  .
  .git            .     working directory
(history)         .      (files we see)
```

**git reset --soft HEAD~1** (move HEAD back by one but keep changes and stage
them) would do the opposite of **git commit**.

Going back to the last staged version:
```text
              git restore

>  [project*]  ------------>  project*

Reviewer: When I first read this, I tried to understand how the diagram represented that.  Then I realized it didn't and was a different thing.  Perhaps add `**git restore**` (bold) to line 211 (right before the diagram) to make it clear that's what it is about.

  HEAD            .
    |             .
    |             .
    |             .
  HEAD~1          .
    |             .
    |             .
    |             .
                  .
  .git            .     working directory
(history)         .      (files we see)
```

> Unstaging changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unstaging changes with **git restore --staged**:
```
Just a demo of what I think each diagram should be introduced with (really emphasize the command, don't only leave it hidden in the diagram)
